when it comes to keyboards I'm a huge
sucker for a cool gimmick and so when EO
maker offered to sponsor this video to
check out their new dino Tab 75x and
more I couldn't say no cuz it's got this
cool optional smart screen that's built
in 75% triple mode gasket mounted
mechanical keyboard really cool three
pin and five pin switches hot swappable
upgraded foam kits I can tell you right
now there's actually quite a lot of foam
in here one of the things I'm not
exactly sure of is their new high five
foam sheet I don't know how much better
that actually makes any sounds or audio
but uh I guess we'll find out but if you
can see here what you should be able to
is there's several cameras pointed at
me it's got a cool screen on it and
there's
540 LEDs that you can program yourself
to display whatever you want on that
screen it's super cool it's kind of like
a couple of other keyboards I've looked
at with displays but this time the nice
thing is it's actually pointed at you so
you're going to be able to look at all
the little blink LEDs when you turn them
on and I'm more impressed by the key
caps than I have been in quite a while
let's check out what else is in the Box
we've got our epomaker dyab 75x welcome
sheet it's got three modes you can do
2.4 GHz Wireless you can do Bluetooth or
you can do wired which is great I really
love it when a keyboard isn't Wireless
only I've bought a few for super cheap
that are just so disappointing I just
want to plug it in more importantly we
get key cap and switch puller uh some
extra key caps if you're a Mac User
option command it's obviously both
Windows and Mac compatible which is
always great and I'm a big fan of being
able to swap keycaps uh I'm also a big
fan of this colorway I really like the
kind of lilac purple with this deeper
purple on the escape in the enter and
then the rest is just white with a nice
purple Legend very pretty uh especially
on the white keyboard the other one is
black I believe so we'll take a look at
that as well as for the cable it's not
bad it comes with this little leather or
pleather strip I'm honestly not
genuinely sure but it looks nice and it
feels okay and then on top of that this
Gable is
thick it's not exactly sleeved but man
it it sure feels like it in terms of
girth uh otherwise you know it's got
these really nice metal connectors that
I'm a big fan of on the housing on the
ends they've got these four screws on
either side so while you do need one of
those uh triangle heads to take it apart
it's possible um a lot of the time
otherwise USB is just kind of annoying
to open up and then they've got this
similarly bulky end on the USBC side I'm
actually okay with this not being
sleeved because I think that the thick
white cable actually really fits with
the rest of this keyboard I've also
noticed that they've got this cool
digital display game and office
mechanical keyboard label at the top I
don't know how I feel about the label
but I do really like that even though
there's probably hot keys for changing
the wired or Wireless stuff you can just
flick it on and off on the switch here
uh Bluetooth wired 2.4 gig great to see
that but before we actually plug it in I
got to look at this keyboard itself and
so to do that I want to take
this beautiful peel off screen looks a
lot nicer now it's got adjustable
feet which is always something I really
love to see it's a feature that you
don't often see in like really high-end
Boutique boards um and I don't I don't
know why
maybe it's just because the metal meets
plastic as a bit of a pain to get right
but um I prefer it because hey maybe you
don't like this high of a typing angle
okay that's fine go down now you're flat
now it's good to go fantastic and then
aside from that where's the dongle for
this thing oh that's pretty
cool I okay another very minor gripe I
really wish this just swung open on a
little hinge instead of fully coming off
however that is a pretty Sleek design I
didn't even see it right away and then
when it's on there you barely even
notice it just kind of looks like a
different piece of plastic it doesn't
look like it's actually supposed to open
until you take a look and check out that
little clip part right there um we'll
plug it in later what I also want to
talk about is just how like stiff and
Hefty this thing is it's all plastic but
it doesn't feel too bad and you know I
have felt a lot of pretty decent all
plastic mechanical keyboards it also
tends to drive the price way down more
on that later and especially when you
add enough foam to it you can get a
pretty decent sound out of it this could
still be a little better especially
considering how many foam layers they've
got in there but it's honestly not bad
out of the
box the only thing I'd try to do if I
were you is adjust the space bar a
really big pet peeve of mine is when
your space bar sounds significantly
different that's true to honestly most
keyboards just because the space bar is
so long and Hollow compared to every
another key on the board let's weigh it
let's how heavy is this thing I'm going
to guess 2 lb two 2 lb it's a 75% layout
obviously it's a Dap 75x so you're going
to get more of a tkl style where there's
no numpad attached which is good for a
lot of people cuz imagine if there was
an unpad this thing would be pretty long
and it would take up a lot of desk space
um to each their
own oh look at that I was almost bang on
1,81 g 2 lb is like 900 it's a hot
swappable PCB which I mean it's 20 24 if
you're not doing that I don't know what
you're doing it's got a 10,000 milliamp
battery which is a lot admittedly but I
don't know how much is going to the
screen itself once it's lighting up or
to the south facing RGB if you turn all
that off though 10,000 milliamp hours on
a regular keyboard is going to last you
quite a while or at least it should
let's boot it up but not before a word
from our sponsor wait it's epomaker no
let's just plug it in hello epomaker
wow okay I don't know what the okay oo
man I'm just a sucker for like RGB LEDs
lights in general I I always love
Christmas lights as a kid you know you
drive around the neighborhood look at
all the Christmas lights uh this should
this button here should both turn the
screen on and off as well as changing
the modes so let's try some of the
different modes hello EO maker wow it's
just like a bunch of RGB if you're
seeing any weird flickering on your
screen I assure you that's just the LEDs
uh interacting with the way we're
filming it it looks steady in person
looks totally fine um these patterns
look okay it's really just like the full
screen yeah it's got this weird flicker
but that's okay and you know the screen
definitely adds a lot of extra width to
the whole thing but it's really not that
bad I mean this doesn't take up that
much desk space all things told let's
try a good oldfashioned typing test and
away we
go
no man I was doing so good at the start
and then that last half I had like three
errors okay well 116 98% still ain't bad
I like
it I'm still torn sometimes I love
linear sometimes I love tactiles so
let's try the other one and see which
one I like
more let's try the tactiles really
quick I can tell you right now that the
sound isn't that much better with the
tactiles but it is a little and I kind
of prefer it I also really like how
they've got the legend on the front um
on this key cap I love a blank Style key
cap set it's just really nice it's
really elitist and dumb but when you
know how to type and you don't need it
it's uh it feels pretty good we'll do a
quick typing
test 11397 I screwed up a couple times
but you know what it's still pretty good
but overall I'm very pleasantly
surprised I think for an all plastic
chassis it actually sounds pretty decent
I don't know if that Hi-Fi sound sheet
is making much of if any difference at
all but I like to see experimentation
and I'm glad that they're actually at
least trying something which is always
cool and especially because it's not
going to cost you an arm and a leg we're
also going to try the dino tab 75 non-x
it doesn't have the screen it is less
expensive but it's still pretty
nifty ooh I love this like brown and
maroon no not quite maroon but like a
reddish brown mud kind of look almost
knock to it but not quite I really like
it uh but yeah if it wasn't obvious
already instead of a screen you've got
what's supposed to be a phone holder Ah
that's pretty cool I really like being
able to both put my phone here in case a
notification comes up and I need to see
it and is I've just got like a whole
second monitor now but what's especially
neat is the idea that you can connect
these via Bluetooth and then type on
your phone and use your phone as your
display and your kind of your computer
oh my God there's some latency because
it's Bluetooth and you know I can't put
my phone into horizontal landscape
mode but this is
great it's hard I'm normally looking
like several words ahead when I'm doing
these typing tests and I can only see
like three uh because it's in portrait
and not landscape but that's really cool
I don't know how often anyone's actually
going to use that feature but I do think
it's pretty cool the only other major
difference between this and the X
version is the battery and it makes
sense this one's only rocking a 5,000
mAh battery but it's it's also not
driving that big screen so I think
that's fine it's still a pretty big
battery for a wireless keyboard let's
check out the software on the dyab 75x
and then I'll tell you all about all the
prices this looks pretty easy we've got
our function settings don't get me wrong
guys I would love via compatibility um I
am not someone who actually goes in and
changes much if anything with their
keyboards but I don't like proprietary
software in general however this is
working pretty well uh and it seems very
simple
and easy to use let's go to the screen
let's make a little thing here oh yeah
that's great
upload wow my creation look at that that
was the probably one of the easiest
though that I've ever done with one of
these um either custom screen or uh not
even keyboards like you can get little
LED displays that you can plug in and do
the same thing uh that was super easy to
use I literally just drew it on here and
then uploaded the picture you can also
do a bunch of other cool stuff like say
you want to do a little animation you
can add frames I'm not going to like sit
here and do anything but look I can add
a frame I can subtract I can make I can
copy the previous frame if you want to
like take your image copy it over and
then move like a leg so that you make
like a little dude running across it or
something like that you can add pictures
okay I got to try to put a picture on it
I have to firm wow in all its pixel oh
can I contrl Z oh my you can even contrl
Z your uh last action if you
accidentally draw on it like I just did
but check this out upload
picture it's a beautiful pixelated mess
obviously that takes some fine tuning
that is WID Linus however yeah you can
totally grab an image and pop it on here
with 540 LEDs you've got quite a lot to
play around with I wish there were one
or two more rows but I guess then
obviously the keyboard would be even
taller or wider and so you know they're
trying to they got they at some point
you got to just choose and be like okay
it's going to be this wide and this tall
and I think what they've done here is
pretty neat and if you want to just
change RGB without using the hotkeys you
can come in here and do that change it
to like Spectrum cycle or dynamic
breathing or um waves Ripple I'm
actually a big Ripple fan yeah it is ah
yeah okay it's totally Rippling back up
your configuration settings from the
cloud so you can plug it in make an
account download the software on a
different computer use the same software
there boom your same little animations
and everything is already backed up and
ready to go as for the price if you want
the screen which I kind of do it's going
to be $140 if you want to save a buck
and maybe use the other one just the
regular non-x dyab 75 uh it's only 90
bucks so they shaved off a whole $50 for
this LED screen and I guess half the
battery but you know a lot of that
batteries probably go into the screen
either way if you want to check them out
then we'll have them down in the links
below thanks so much for watching if you
want to check out another short circuit
make sure to look at the rt100 from eil
maker that was one with the little
monitor screen I think Jamie took it
home he loved
it see you later